We interrupt this course to share an update to Python version 3.10, which has incorporated some subtle
changes, but also a very important change that deserves to create a special lecture so I can teach
you what has been called structural pattern matching.
So what is this?
Until now, in versions 3.9 of Python backwards, Python has missing a tool that exists in almost all
of the programming languages, which is a variety of if that allows us to choose from a number of options
in the other languages.
This tool is usually called switch in Python from version 3.10 onwards.
If you've installed that version, you can also already have it and it's called Match because it looks
for coincidences.
The great thing is that as everything in Python match is not only going to reach what the other languages
already have with switch, but at the same time it's going to surpass them.
Match will not only allow us to choose one option among several, but it will also allow us to implement
that our code does something different according to a pattern of information we are receiving.
This is complex to understand in the abstract, so let's see it with an example.
In this example here we have a variable named series that has the value n02.
We also have this block of code that checks if our variable matches this value and if it does print
something.
If it doesn't, then it will check equality with the second value and it will print something different
in case it matches.
Then the same with the third value.
And finally, if it doesn't match any, it will fall inside this else to print an all encompassing,
comprehensive option.
If we run this code, the serial number is equal to number two.
So it's going to print knock here.
Well, this you already know how to do with the ifs.
And this is what we would do with Python versions prior to 3.10 when we had to solve this kind of logic
using this if elif and L structure to solve it.
Match instead is going to allow us to do this in a slightly different way, but with many other advantages.
So first, we're going to comment this out.
So it's not executable anymore.
And let's see a very simple case.
Let's copy it and paste again down here so we can transform it into a match application.
Now we're going to use the keyword match and we're going to see if we can find a match for the value
series.
We're going to indent this with top key and instead of F series equals to we're going to put the case
as in case of then this may be read like in the case that series matches with number one print Samsung.
If that wasn't the case and we know it's not, it will follow along with the next case.
So in the case that series is equal to number two, it will print Nokia.
In the case it is number three, it will print Motorola.
And in the last case and it says something exhaustive here where we put in case underscore colon.
So this that if it doesn't find any matching value in series, it prints the other string.
If we run, we're going to get exactly the same values before, but with a little bit of a simpler code.
But so far what I've just shown you, even when it has some simple differences, is just the language
change to do the same thing that we could already do with F and L, F, maybe it's a little bit easier
to read, maybe it's a little bit more compressed.
But let's face it, if this was the whole change, well, it wouldn't be that much of a big deal.
So where does all the power of match lie that makes it so that we can not only do the same thing as
in other languages, but also be a little bit superior?
Well, let's see that by eliminating all these examples and let's eliminate the series and let's create
two different cases.
First, a variable that's called client.
That's equal to a dictionary.
A dictionary that first contains the name of a person.
In this case, it's going to be Federico.
Why not?
Let's make it have another variable.
This is age and Federico is age despite it is 46 years old as of today.
When we're going to add a third value, a third key to this dictionary, which is occupation.
And we can say that Federico is occupation, is online instructor.
And here we have then a variable with a value composed of three keys and values in a dictionary.
So we're going to create movie a slightly different variable.
Movie will also be equal to a dictionary, but this one will first contain a key that will be title,
and the value of that key can be matrix.
To be able to choose a good movie and I mean Matrix one, of course you can also choose any movie you
want except Matrix four.
Of course, we're going to add a second element, a second key to our dictionary, which can be the
credits.
And this key will be composed of another dictionary, a dictionary that has a first element that is
the main star.
And the main star of Matrix is Keanu Reeves.
Let's add a second key, a second element to this internal dictionary called credits, which can be
director, colon and the director or directors of the Matrix are Lana and Lilly or Michalski.
So we already have a dictionary within a dictionary.
So far we have two very different elements, or rather two elements with a different structure of their
values.
Both are a dictionary type.
But this one has three keys and they're simple values, and this one has two keys with the simple values.
But the value of the second key is composed by a dictionary two keys and two values.
That is to say two items respectively.
Now let's create a list that can be called items, but it is very general list that will contain these
two elements.
Client is going to contain movie, and a third element that does not exist here, that can be book.
We will put it in quotation marks so it does not give us an error because if it is not already an existing
element, it has to be a string.
We have a list with these two elements, plus one that so far is only a string.
Now we we're going to use the for loop that we have learned today to be able to go through all these
elements and do something looking for matches in them despite how many differences there are.
So let's see.
We're going to say that for every eye that there are is in items.
What we're going to do is we're going to look for a match in I.
We put the code on so we can start looking at the different cases and this is where the difference begins.
In the case where my dictionary structure is composed of name with the value name, comma, age, with
the value age, and finally occupation with the value occupation.
That is a case if this should be the case.
That is to say that the structure of my element in the list has this structure.
Well, in that case we have detected that it is a client and then we will print it is a client.
And we can even show some information if we print name, age and occupation.
What this will do is if it is the case that in any iteration of this loop, the item of my list keeps
the customer structure.
Not only print that it is a customer, but print the name that will bring it from here.
It will be the value that contains the key name in this case, Federico, and the age that it is contained.
That is to say, whatever the value that has the age property within this key and occupation the same.
So I hope you follow me.
This would be one case.
But what if, in any iteration through my list, the item doesn't respond to the client structure?
We will check if it matches a different structure where there is a title with a value inside the title,
where there is a second key that is credits.
And here comes also a difference that the value of this credits is composed of a dictionary that first
contains a main star for which we will find a value main star comma, and then has a director with the
value director colon.
If this second case were the case for an iteration, then we're going to print that this is a movie
and we can bring in some move information in another print that says title main star and director.
Okay.
You can do, of course, more interesting things than this.
I just print this series of strings to show you that I can extract that information, but you can do
a little string with more interesting things.
And then a final case, a case where we treat the default, which is the underscore.
And in case this ever happens, we're going to print.
Well, I don't know what this is.
Okay.
Then I review before executing our code.
We have two variables client, which is a dictionary with three elements movie which is a dictionary
with two elements of which the second one contains a dictionary with two more elements.
And we have a list that includes these two elements, plus one that doesn't exist in my code before
and then through for a full loop.
We're going to go through each of these elements of the list.
And for each of them, we're going to see if there is a match for that element in the case that it coincides
with this structure.
Then we're going to execute these two lines.
It will print this and then this.
In the case that it matches this other structure.
It's going to print this and then this.
And in the case that it doesn't match any structure, it's going to say it doesn't know what the hell
that is.
We run it to see what happens.
And here we go.
First it tells us it's a client because it started by going through the client element and then it told
us.
Federico, 46, instructor.
Then our followup went to the second element, which is movie, which is detected that it matches this
structure and not the previous one.
It said it's a movie called Matrix.
Keanu Reeves, Lana and Lilly Michalski.
And then it went to the third element.
It didn't know what that is.
It didn't find it in this case or this case.
And it printed this last case saying, I don't know what this is and that's it.
But why didn't Python have this before?
Every other language is had it because it basically Python had something very similar using the if an
LF and so on, by adding this functionality that allows to detect patterns.
It went much further and so they said, yes, now we're going to give Python to this cool feature,
which I hope you're interested to learn about.
So thanks for watching this update.
And let's get back to the project of the day.